Add data-observability toolset to MCP Server docs (#37963)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/mcp_server/tools.md

- Help me debug why this widget is showing fractional values when it should be a count.
- How do I configure a timeseries to show both bars and lines?

## Data Observability

> Tools for [Data Observability][68], including data catalog search, lineage traversal and ranking, monitor coverage and status, entity tags and descriptions, Spark/Databricks job health, warehouse query history, and cost and performance optimization recommendations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tools for [Data Observability][68], including data catalog search, lineage analysis, data quality monitoring, and cost and performance recommendations for data warehouses and Spark jobs.
```

*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read` or `APM Read`*\
Searches for data entities in the data catalog by name, full-text search, or filters (platform, schema, database, account).

- Find tables named "orders" in Snowflake.
- List all dbt models starting with `stg_`.
- What schemas exist in my BigQuery project?

### `get_data_catalog_schema`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read` or `APM Read`*\
Returns the entity type schema for every platform with data in the catalog: entity types, containment hierarchy, filterable attributes, and default metrics.

- What platforms are connected to Data Observability?
- What entity types exist for Databricks?
- What metrics are available for a table entity?

### `get_data_entity_details`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read` or `APM Read`*\
Fetches full details and attributes (owner, tags, custom attributes, platform, schema, database, account) for one or more data entities by ID.

- Get the full attributes for this table entity.
- Who owns this dataset?

### `get_data_entity_hierarchy`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read` or `APM Read`*\

> Fetches the containment hierarchy (ancestors and descendants) for one or more entities — for example, which database/schema a table belongs to, or which tables are in a schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetches the containment hierarchy (ancestors and descendants) for one or more entities — for example, which database or schema a table belongs to, or which tables are in a schema.
```

- What columns are in this table?
- Show the full hierarchy around this entity.

### `get_data_entity_lineage`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read` or `APM Read`*\
Fetches the live reachable lineage subgraph (nodes and edges) from one or more anchor entities, upstream, downstream, or both.

- What's downstream of this table?
- Show me the upstream lineage for this column.
- What would break if I dropped this table?

### `summarize_data_entity_lineage`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read` or `APM Read`*\
Returns aggregate lineage statistics (node/edge counts, type breakdowns, depth distribution) for a large or unknown lineage graph, without the full payload. Use before `get_data_entity_lineage` on graphs of unknown size.

- How many things depend on this table, broken down by type?
- How deep does the lineage go from this table?

### `rank_data_entities_by_lineage_degree`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read` or `APM Read`*\
Ranks entities by transitive lineage connectivity (upstream, downstream, or both), using a pre-built snapshot.

> - What are the most widely-depended-on tables in my warehouse?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Which tables in my warehouse have the most dependencies?
```

- Which raw ingestion tables have the deepest downstream chains?

### `get_warehouse_query_history`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Logs Read Data` and `Logs Read Index Data`*\
Fetches recent queries that touched specific entities, in reverse chronological order, including the SQL text, execution state, and query type.

- Who has been querying this table recently?
- What writes have happened to this table in the last week?

**Note**: The `sql` field in results is raw, user-authored SQL from the warehouse and should be treated as untrusted data.

### `get_popular_warehouse_tables_by_query_frequency`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Logs Read Data` and `Logs Read Index Data` and `APM Read`*\

> Ranks tables by query activity, broken out by who's querying them: human users, BI tools, orchestrators, ETL tools, or internal service accounts.

Reviewer: "Broken out" is a little awkward or jargony; would "grouped" work instead?
```suggestion
Ranks tables by query activity, grouped by who's querying them: human users, BI tools, orchestrators, ETL tools, or internal service accounts.
```

- What tables are most queried by BI tools?
- Which tables get the most human analyst traffic?

### `suggest_data_observability_monitor_filters`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read`*\
Analyzes a set of entities to find common attributes and naming patterns, and suggests monitor filter expressions that group subsets of those entities.

- What do my highest-priority tables have in common?
- Suggest a filter that covers all my staging tables.

### `rank_data_observability_monitor_candidates`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `APM Read`*\

> Ranks tables by monitoring priority, combining lineage impact and query activity into a single composite score. The primary entry point for "what should I monitor?" questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ranks tables by monitoring priority, combining lineage impact and query activity into a single composite score. This is the primary entry point for "what should I monitor?" questions.
```

- What tables should I set up data quality monitors for first?

### `get_data_observability_monitor`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `Monitors Read` and `Timeseries` and `APM Read`*\
Retrieves data quality metric timeseries for a given monitor ID, including anomaly-detection bounds when enabled.

> - Show me the metric history for monitor 12345.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Show me the metric history for monitor `12345`.
```

- What tags are on this table?
- Tag this table with `owner:data-platform-team`.

### `get_entity_descriptions` / `update_entity_description`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `APM Read` or `Monitors Read` (get); `Data Observability Catalog Write` (update)*\
Gets or sets custom user-defined descriptions on data entities.

- What's the description on this table?
- Set a description explaining what this table is used for.

### `get_spark_job_health`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `APM Read`*\
Retrieves detailed health metrics (duration, executor CPU time, shuffle, spill, worst stages) for a single Spark or Databricks job run.

- Why did this Spark job run slowly?
- Show me the worst stages for the most recent run of this job.

### `get_spark_sql_plan`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `APM Read`*\
Retrieves the Spark SQL physical execution plan for a stage, including join strategies, shuffle information, and per-node metrics.

- Show me the execution plan for this Spark stage.

### `list_data_observability_recommendations`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `APM Read`*\

> Lists cost and performance optimization recommendations for data jobs and queries (Spark, Databricks, Snowflake, BigQuery), with estimated cost and duration savings. Returns lightweight summaries with cursor pagination.

Reviewer: Are these the only data vendors supported, or just a few major examples? If the tool covers additional vendors, indicate that with `(such as Spark, Databricks, Snowflake, BigQuery)`.

Reviewer 2: for now they're the only platform supported, but will keep in my to update/ change phrasing if we cover more in the future

- What cost-saving recommendations do I have for my Databricks jobs?
- Are there any recommendations for reducing data skew in my Spark jobs?

### `get_data_observability_recommendation`
*Toolset: **data-observability***\
*Permissions Required: `APM Read`*\
Retrieves full details of a specific Data Observability recommendation by ID, including its structured body describing the problem, evidence, and proposed change.

- Get the details of recommendation `abc123`.

> ## Database Monitoring

Reviewer: Delete the extra empty line:
```suggestion
- Get the details of recommendation `abc123`.

## Database Monitoring
```
